---
title: "FAQ"
weight: 70
type: "docs"
description: >
  Frequently Asked Questions
---

## Why joining the EGI Cloud?

- To support international communities supported by EGI (e.g.
  [these research communities and applications](https://www.egi.eu/use-cases/)
  or
  [these research infrastructures in EOSC-hub](https://eosc-hub.eu/research-communities)
  or
  [these business pilots in the EOSC Digital Innovation Hub](https://eosc-hub.eu/digital-innovation-hub).
- To participate in e-Infrastructure projects (H2020, EOSC) as an EGI compliant
  IaaS cloud provider.
- To participate in resource allocation and in pay-for-use campaigns run by EGI.
- To align access policies and operational model of your cloud with
  international good practices.
- To adopt best practices of multi-cloud federation for the benefit of your
  local users.

## Do I lose control on who can access my resources if I join federated cloud?

**No**. EGI uses the concept of Virtual Organisation (VO) to group users. The
resource provider has complete control on which VOs he wants to allow on its
resources and which quotas or restrictions to assign to each VO. In the case of
OpenStack, each VO is mapped to a regular OpenStack project that can be managed
as any other and are isolated to other projects you may have configured in your
deployment. Although not recommended, you can even restrict the automatic access
of users within a VO and manually enable individual members.

## How many components do I have to install?

Depending on your cloud management framework and the kind of integration this
will vary.

In general, the federation requires your cloud management framework to be
configured to support Federated AAI with EGI Check-in. This may require changes
in your current setup.

Other components are designed to access your cloud management framework public
APIs and do not require modification of your deployment. For OpenStack, these
components can be run on a single VM that encapsulates them for convenience.

## Which components of my cloud will interact with the federated cloud components?

For OpenStack they are:

- Keystone
- Nova
- Glance
- Swift (optional)

Users will also interact with:

- Neutron
- Cinder

to perform their regular activities.

## How will my daily operational activities change?

For the most part daily operations will not change.

A resource centre part of the EGI Federation, and supporting international
communities, needs to provide support through the EGI channels. This means
following up [GGUS tickets](https://ggus.eu). This includes requests from user
communities and tickets triggered by failures detected by the monitoring
infrastructure.

A resource centre needs to maintain the services federated in EGI properly
configured with the EGI AAI.

The resource centre will have to comply with the operational and security
requirements. All the EGI policies aim at implementing service provisioning best
practices and common requirements. EGI operations may conduct campaigns targeted
to mitigate security vulnerabilities and to update unsupported operating system
and software. These activities are part of the regular activities of a resource
centre anyways (also for the non-federated ones). EGI and the Operations Centres
coordinate these actions in order to have them implemented in a timely manner.

In summary, most of the site activities that are coordinated by EGI and the NGIs
are already part of the work plan of a well-maintained resource centre, the
additional task for a site manager is to acknowledge to EGI that the task has
been performed.
